README.md, before:

## muslim.finance

- “I have $X, what should I do?”
- “How should I handle my money/finances/debt?”

### Keys to Financial Peace

1. Decide a budget. Understand where your money is going. Too much focus goes to investing instead of budgeting/saving.
2. Save 20% of your salary each month.
3. Prioritize eliminating debt vs investing. 
4. Contribute to 401K. Most employers match and there are tax advantages. 
5. Set goals for what you need (house, tuition)
6. Invest. See our investment strategy. 

### Keys to Investing
1. Decide your Islamic principles and stick with them.
2. Keep it simple and to what you know.
3. Long term rather than short term.

### Balancing Investments
> Many focus only on the stock market when thinking about investing. Consider investing in other avenues such has real estate.

*Stock Market*

The stock market is naturally volatile, purchase companies you believe in. Most importantly, keep calm and carry on. 

*Real Estate*

Consider investing in real estate with your primary home and rental homes if you can afford. Real estate forces you to be long term and there are many tax benefits. When evaluating rental homes, prioritize cash flow with some appreciation rather than just appreciation. 

### What should I invest in the stock market?


*Should I buy individual stocks?*

No. Index and mutual funds have historically performed better than a selected basket of stocks. It is highly recommended to invest most of your money in these types of funds - especially low-cost index funds.

### 401K
A 401K is an account provided by employers for retirement that has a number of benefits and tax advantages. 401k’s are directly funded from your paycheck and many employers match contributions up to a certain threshold (typically 2-5%). Many 401k’s only allow you to choose from a handful of Vanguard funds. If this is the case, pick the most tech-heavy and equity-based fund.  This will be the most sharia-compliant and long-term performing. If you can choose any stocks, see our recommended basket of stocks. 

Make sure to contribute the minimum needed for your employer to match (it’s free money!). Note there is a contribution limit of $18,500 per year for 2018 (there are exceptions if you are over 50). 

#### 401K: Traditional vs Roth 

There are two types of 401k: Traditional (pre-tax contributions) and Roth (post-tax contributions). Contributions to a traditional 401k can be deducted from your gross income in that year. However, you will need pay income tax when withdrawing at retirement. With a Roth 401K, tax is deducted upfront since you are contributing post-tax dollars. Roth 401k is great for young professionals as you will probably be earning more and in a higher tax bracket.

If your employer offers both, consider splitting contributions to both. Note there are heavy limitations on Roth 401k in terms of contribution amounts and how much you earn ($199K married, $135K single adjusted gross income).

Commit message:

updates to basket of stocks

README.md, after:

### :key: Keys to Financial Peace

1. Decide a budget. Understand where your money is going. Too much focus goes to investing instead of budgeting/saving.
2. Save 20% of your salary each month.
3. Prioritize eliminating debt vs investing. 
4. Contribute to 401K. Most employers match and there are tax advantages. 
5. Set goals for what you need (house, tuition)
6. Invest. See our investment strategy. 

### :key: Keys to Investing
1. Decide your Islamic principles and stick with them.
2. Keep it simple and to what you know.
3. Long term rather than short term.

### Balancing Investments
Many focus only on the stock market when thinking about investing. Consider investing in other avenues such has real estate.

*Stock Market*

The stock market is naturally volatile, purchase companies you believe in. Most importantly, keep calm and carry on. 

*Real Estate*

Consider investing in real estate with a primary home and rental homes if you can afford. Real estate forces you to be long term and there are many tax benefits. When evaluating rental homes, prioritize cash flow with some appreciation rather than just appreciation. 

### What should I invest in the stock market?
> Investing should be more like watching paint dry or watching grass grow. If you want excitement, take $800 and go to Las Vegas.

- QQQ - Top 100 Nasdaq index of stocks. Nasdaq consists mainly of the top tech companies such as Amazon, Apple, Google, etc). 
- AMANX - Amana Income. Amana offers halal mutual funds. Amana Income invests in more stable companies. 
- AMAGX - Amana Growth. Amana Growth invests more aggressively primarily in tech companies. 


*Should I buy individual stocks?*

No. Index and mutual funds have historically performed better than a selected basket of stocks. It is highly recommended to invest most of your money in these types of funds - especially low-cost index funds.

### 401K
A 401K is an account provided by employers for retirement that has a number of benefits and tax advantages. 401k’s are directly funded from your paycheck and many employers match contributions up to a certain threshold (typically 2-5%). Many 401k’s only allow you to choose from a handful of Vanguard funds. If this is the case, pick the most tech-heavy and equity-based fund.  This will be the most sharia-compliant and long-term performing. If you can choose any stocks, see our recommended basket of stocks. 

Make sure to contribute the minimum needed for your employer to match (it’s free money!). Note there is a contribution limit of $18,500 per year for 2018 (there are exceptions if you are over 50). 

#### 401K: Traditional vs Roth 

There are two types of 401k: Traditional (pre-tax contributions) and Roth (post-tax contributions). Contributions to a traditional 401k can be deducted from your gross income in that year. However, you will need pay income tax when withdrawing at retirement. With a Roth 401K, tax is deducted upfront since you are contributing post-tax dollars. Roth 401k is great for young professionals as you will probably be earning more and in a higher tax bracket.

If your employer offers both, consider splitting contributions to both. Note there are heavy limitations on Roth 401k in terms of contribution amounts and how much you earn ($199K married, $135K single adjusted gross income).
